# REYES-UCB-mentee
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
 <body>
    <h2>Python4Physics Summer Program Report – REYES 2025 </h2>
       <h2> Jharna Saxena </h2>
       <p><i>I. Introduction<br><br>
I discovered the REYES program in my university’s summer school PDF for “Internships and Mentorships Program” while searching for internship or certification courses beyond my usual boring Coursework and Coursera, hoping to make my summer productive. The program transformed my summer by providing a structured routine for study and fun, helping me grasp concepts I’d struggled with for years and even till now was struggling. In high school, kinematics I couldn’t solve a single ques without rereading it and I found myself stuck on the same questions but REYES clarified these topics I also learned about  subjects like LIGO for first time and I’ve loved astrophysics since childhood but never got to learn it like real physicists do and even though I’m a CS major now in fresher year I’ve always found it fascinating and while I’m not great at math the calculus stats and probability classes helped me prepare for my sophomore year and taught me how to approach problems better<br>
With my Python background from CS50P and high school, I enjoyed the hands projects (though I wasn’t able to solve 2 projects day 5-6 and day 7 I am sorry for that) and P4P not only enhanced my practical coding skills but also revealed gaps in my foundational understanding. Guest lectures offered valuable information guidance and I learned to write better code comments, overcoming my perfectionist habit of rewriting everything even variable definations etc .<br>
  REYES was a life saver for me.<br>
</i></p>
<br>
    <p> <i>II. What I Learned: <br>
<br>
Python : I’ve been learning python since 2022 in high school, then again in my first semester of university. i always liked it that’s why I chose data science and even did cs50p. But honestly I never really built anything beyond classwork. This program changed that. I made five real projects each one with new and useful libraries. Waytt Smith sir’s lectures on day 1 and 2 reminded me of the basics i had forgotten. it felt like reconnecting with something i used to love. Python suddenly felt powerful in a new way. Iván Sir’s lectures helped me the vastness of Calculus it all made sense I felt capable. I felt excited. I wasn’t just copying anymore but understanding
      <br><br>
<h3> Astrophysics & Cosmology:</h3><br>
Fundamental Forces and Cosmic Scale: Learned about the four fundamental forces (gravitational, electromagnetic, weak nuclear, strong nuclear) and their relative strengths (Fg:Fe:Fw:Fs = 1:10³⁶:10³⁹:10²⁴). This highlighted gravity’s weakness and cosmic importance. Then we revisited basics of atomic structure and how electorn is bigger than nucleus etc we realised that isolated unstable nucleus have beta decay I used to think just like energy of isolated system remains conserved nucleus also remain conserved then we moved into proton electron antineutrino which is example of weak nuclear force we also revised about binding energy and E = mc^2 when momentum is 0 and other formula when momentum is not 0. Revisited atomic structure: electron mass (9.1×10^-31kg), proton/neutron mass (1.67×10^-27 kg), and the nucleus’s size (100,000 times smaller than the atom). Also learned that isolated neutrons decay via weak nuclear force into a proton, electron, and antineutrino. <br><br>
Astrophysics: my favourite topic of the entire program Even though I’m a CS major with average grades, I’ve always been fascinated by astrophysics especially universe This session brought that passion back to life. I had no idea the South Pole is technically a desert I thought it was just like shown in movies Instructor also introduced us to Mount Erebus, a place I had never heard of before, and Erebus crystals, which were fascinating. Then there was the NASA balloon experiment And of course, the giant South Pole telescope, which plays such a key role in understanding the Big Bang. Before this session, I didn’t really understand what the Big Bang was, but I learned that its energy scale is around 10^16 GeV, which is terrifying The term quantum fluctuations also came up something I only vaguely remembered from movies Avengers: Endgame but now I saw the real science behind it. Then we moved to quantum fluctuations leading to inflation, inflation ending and particles forming, protons forming, nuclear fusion beginning and ending, and the creation of the cosmic microwave background (CMB). We then explored the Dark Ages, the formation of the first stars and galaxies.  As a child I used to wonder how humans were able to live on earth when people says earth used to be a ball of fire I also learned that space-time fluctuations and the standard cosmological model. Another thing I found fascinating was how unstable neutrons decay, and how physicists are able to study these decays by using momentum and energy conservation. I loved learning how atoms are structured from electrons orbiting a nucleus, to the protons and neutrons inside that nucleus, which are made up of up and down quarks held together by gluons.<br><br>
Particle physics, Gravitational Waves and LIGO:  Through our introduction to particle physics and gravitational waves I learned how mass arises from interactions with the Higgs deepening my understanding of the building blocks of matter. I came to appreciate how resonance increases the likelihood of particle interactions and how the Breit-Wigner distribution models those probabilities. Working with SciPy was a challenge for me but I learned to use it tho I gained a new perspective on quantum noise realizing how photons, even with low energy can introduce randomness in precise instruments. Learning about LIGO   how we can detect and study distant cosmic events using gravitational wave signals, despite Earth's constant vibration environment The density of neutron stars and the origin of elements from star deaths to neutron star 
<br>
Neutron Stars, Elements Origin and Black Holes: Studied neutron star density (~4×10¹⁷ kg/m³), black hole formation, and their role in gravitational wave signals. Learned about the lifecycle of stars and remnants, including the “stellar graveyard.” Then we learned the origin of solar system elements like hydrogen coming totally from Big Bang fusion, helium from Big Bang fusion and slightly from dying low-mass stars. Then a few elements emerged from cosmic ray fission, a few from the merging of neutron stars that require loads of energy.
<br><br>
Dark Matter and Axions: Although I missed the Day 10 lecture due to an exam, I explored the topic afterward and learned about axions hypothetical particles that could solve the strong CP problem in quantum field theory. I also found it fascinating that axions may act as insulators. I wish I could’ve attended the lecture it sounded incredible.These topics taught by Anna Coerver, Livia Belman-Wells, Professor Vicky Xu,Malcom Spilka Lazarow and Professor Chiara Salemi these lectures were based on my long forgotten passion of astrophysics and learning about the universe These lectures brought back that passion and will to better and have knowledge about many things.
<br><br>
Classical Mechanics & Calculus
<br><br>
Kinematics and Projectile Motion: Learned projectile motion problems using proper units and reasoning and overcoming my fear of kinematics. Revised kinematic quantities: position, displacement, velocity, acceleration, and retardation, emphasizing velocity as a vector. Solved practice problems and plotted position vs. time graphs, clarifying average vs. instantaneous velocity 
<br><br>
Differential Calculus and Equations: Strengthened grasp of differentiation as the rate of change and its application to motion. Solved problems on derivatives, limits, and learned about another nightmare harmonic oscillators Explored convergence divergence which was also a hard topic for me and learned about sinusoidal and cosine waves, despite scoring 3/15 on a convergence test in my fresher year I learned better. Learned first- and second-order differential equations eg Newton’s Second Law, Schrodinger’s, and Maxwell’s equations, etc
<br><br>
Iván Mauricio Burbano Aldana wonderfully explained differential calculus and Kinematics topics I’ve always struggled with for the first time I could actually connect the dots and solve problems this year, in my final semester, I had linear differential equations and totally messed up This lecture was a reality check on how much I’d missed the basics 5.75/20 before REYES, 14.75/20 after REYES.
Magnetism & Symmetry
<br><br>
Magnetic Fields and Forces: Studied bar magnets, iron filings, and magnetic field lines (north to south pole). Understood Earth’s magnetic field resembling a bar magnet and the connection of electricity and magnetism. Revised magnetic moments, cyclotrons, dipoles, and metal magnetism Introduced to the Ising model with +1 and -1 spins and nearest neighbour interactions in configuration and concept of  magnetic systems this topic was totally new for me then learned about symmetries (rotations, reflections, etc)
<br>
Sir Felipe Ortega Gama’s lectures genuinely changed how I viewed the magnetism chapter. I used to get stuck on small concepts, but his teaching clarified most of the doubts I had.
<br>
<br>
<h3> III. Conclusion</h3> <br>

Before joining REYES, I often felt like physics was something I liked in theory but struggled to understand in practice. I used to freeze up over basic kinematics problems and even got 23/70 in half yearly (I cried hard for that week) even after studying them in both high school and my first year of college, I couldn’t solve them without rereading the questions over and over. Over time I also forgot many concepts I had once learned even rote learned, and my confidence in math and physics faded But this program changed that.<br> REYES helped me brush up on all those forgotten fundamentals calculus probability motion forces and reintroduced them through coding, which made everything feel more good and helped me to revise the python too. I no longer felt like I was trying to memorize formulas. Instead, I was actually learning how and why things work. Through lectures, projects and great guest speakers, I rediscovered the excitement I used to feel when thinking about space particles and the universe itself I finally felt like I belonged in these scientific conversations. REYES didn’t just teach me physics or Python it helped me rebuild my spark which I lost somewhere due to my AI ChatBot addiction  I stopped being afraid of getting things wrong and started focusing on improving bit by bit. I still have gaps in my memory and things I don’t fully understand, but now I know how to approach those gaps instead of avoiding them. This experience reminded me why I love science, and gave me the tools to keep exploring it with curiosity instead of fear.<br>

Thank you REYES Team and Teachers for making this program great and grounded for someone like me who had lost her spark in past 2 yrs now due to AI ChatBot addictions and gaps in my mind 
Thank you for making me realise I still have my spark back!!!
 </i></p>
  </body>
</html>
